Now that we've gone through zero-knowledge proofs at a high level,
let's look at a zero-knowledge technique known as "zkSNARKs."
This topic can get pretty complex.
What we're going to do in this video is go through everything in small steps and then
bring it all together at the end so that you can confidently understand zkSNARKs,
be able to explain them to others and identify when to use them in your app development.
Let's look at zkSNARKs at the high level first and then we'll dig in.
What zkSNARKs do is allow you to verify with
cryptographic certainty that someone else has computed a value
and that they've done it by a process which you can
verify all without having to witness the actual computation.
A common use case for this is to ensure that someone else has some certain data,
like a secret, but without them having to reveal what the data is.
To illustrate this, let's use a variation
of the problem Alice and Bob had from the previous video.
In this case, Alice wants to know if Bob has a certain document.
Alice could send hash of her document over to Bob,
and then Bob could say, "Yeah, that matches."
But in this case,
Alice really doesn't have a way to know if Bob said yes
because he truly has a document or if he just said yes.
The way we can resolve this problem is using zkSNARKS.
Alice can generate what's called a "Cryptographic
Circuit," basically the engine of our zkSNARK.
It acts like a small computer program.
That computer program is going to take two inputs:
the hash provided by Alice and the document cited by Bob.
It then compute the hash of Bob's document and compares it to the hash provided by Alice,
and returns true or false depending on if they match.
The program runs on Bob's computer,
so Bob does need to worry about revealing any kind of information
and the output of the program is the proof of the program's execution.
The neat thing is Bob can't fake the output.
So, if he tried to change the program,
or supplied the wrong input,
or hide any data corrupted in transmission,
he won't be able to generate a proof that Alice will accept.
Or in other words,
upon presenting the zkSNARK,
Alice can be absolutely sure that Bob ran the program successfully,
and therefore, Bob has the document he claims to have.
Bob on the other hand,
was able to prove to Alice that he has the document,
but without revealing the actual contents.
So, this way, he preserves privacy.
So, what exactly is a zkSNARK?
Well, l it's an acronym.
It stands for Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge.
That's a mouthful. So, let's break this down a bit.
First the zk stands for zero-knowledge.
Just like how the baseball example and the red card example worked,
you can prove something without showing anything more than just that.
The rest of the acronym is what differentiates
this type of proof from any other zero-knowledge proof.
Next, S is for Succinct.
So, succinct in this case deals with the size of the proof that's generated,
relative to the size of the knowledge that you claim to possess.
This is especially important in blockchain applications,
where writing, storing data on the block chain can be very expensive.
The N stands for non-interactive.
That's the cool feature where you got to generate
a proof that's sufficient proof for everyone.
This is another super-useful thing for blockchain applications since we won't
always be able to host interactive proof sessions between everyone on the chain.
AR stands for arguments.
Arguments in this case is what we've been calling the proof.
The distinction and the cartography between arguments and proof is kind of subtle.
So, we won't really go into great detail here,
but it's easy to think about like this.
In court, when a lawyer wants to prove something is true,
they provide arguments to support it.
It's the evidence and logic that they use to prove the existence of a fact.
Finally, the K stands for knowledge.
This is what you're trying to prove you have
without revealing the actual knowledge itself.
So, now you know what does zkSNARK is.
Or if you prefer,
a Zero-Knowledge to Succint Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge.
For your development, this means that in a single statement,
you can quickly prove something,
without interacting with anyone else in a way
that's very difficult to hack can't be replicated,
and can be done without you needed to tell anyone what you're trying to prove.